articles/multifactor-authentication/guardian/admin-guide.md, before:

---
description: How to enable and use Push Notifications and SMS for Guardian MFA.
toc: true
topics:
  - mfa
  - guardian
  - push-notifications
contentType:
  - how-to
useCase:
  - customize-mfa
---

# Guardian for Administrators

Guardian is Auth0's multi-factor authentication (MFA) application that provides a simple, safe way for you to implement MFA. The Guardian app is used for two-factor authentication when logging into an application, which helps create a more secure login.  With two-factor authentication your users will always need their mobile device in order to login.

This page explains how to enable and use Push Notifications and SMS for MFA for signing in your users.

For more information on Guardian, how to download the app, and common questions, see: [How to Use the Guardian App](/multifactor-authentication/guardian/user-guide).

## Support for Push Notifications

To enable Push Notifications MFA for sign in and sign up for your application by your users, go to the [Multi-factor Auth](${manage_url}/#/guardian) section of the dashboard. Then toggle the **Push Notification** slider to enable it.

![Dashboard > Guardian](/media/articles/mfa/guardian-dashboard.png)

For your users to utilize this type of MFA, they will need a supported mobile device. The device must have either the Guardian app installed, the Google Authenticator app installed, or an app that supports scanning Time-based One-time Password (TOTP) codes to use with Guardian. Here are the available options:

| **OS** | **Guardian** | **Google Authenticator** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **iOS** | Requires iOS 9.0 or later| Requires iOS 5.0 or later |
| **Android** | Requires Android API version 18 or later| Requires Android version 2.1 or later |
| **Windows** | Guardian codes are supported using the Microsoft Authenticator app available for Windows 10 Mobile and Windows Phone 8/8.1 | Unsupported |
| **Blackberry** | Must use a TOTP scanning app | Requires OS 4.5-7.0 |
| **Other** | Must use a TOTP scanning app | Unsupported |

::: note
For more information on using the Google Authenticator app, refer to [Google Authenticator](/multifactor-authentication/google-authenticator).
:::

New users signing up will be prompted to download the Guardian app from either the App Store or Google Play. Once they indicate that they downloaded the app, a code will appear. They will have five minutes to scan the code with the app before it expires. After the code has been successfully scanned, users will see a confirmation screen which includes a recovery code. They need to have this recovery code to login without their mobile device. If they lose both the recovery code and their mobile device, you will need to [reset their MFA](#reset-an-mfa-for-a-user). Then they will receive a push notification to their device and they will be logged in.

Users that were previously registered before you enabled MFA will need to complete the same process as new users on their next login.

## Support for SMS

You can enable SMS messages to use as a form of multi-factor authentication. This is also under the [Multi-factor Auth](${manage_url}/#/guardian) section of the dashboard. By toggling the **SMS** slider, you can enable using SMS for sign in and sign up for your application. SMS can be used as your only form of MFA or in addition to Push Notifications.

Your users must have a device capable of using SMS to use this option. If your users are unable to always receive SMS messages (such as when travelling), they will be unable sign up with SMS and unable to login without the recovery code.

When your users sign up with SMS, they enter their phone number's country code and mobile phone number.

![](/media/articles/mfa/sms.png)

After sign up, they receive a six digit code to their phone. They need to enter this code into the box, and then they will get a recovery code. They will need this code to login if they do not have their device. If they have lost their recovery code and device, you will need to [reset the user's MFA](#reset-an-mfa-for-a-user).

::: panel Rate Limits

Each hour, any given user is allotted a maximum of ten failed SMS attempts. After that, Auth0 considers all OTP codes invalid, and any additional attempts to log in results in a `Too Many Attempts` error.

More specifically, this means that if someone enters in the code incorrectly ten or more times within an hour, they will need to wait six minutes to gain another attempt. If the user attempts another code before sufficient time has elapsed, Auth0 considers all OTP codes invalid (even if they aren't expired).
:::

### Configuring Guardian SMS with Twilio

When initially setting up SMS, you have up to 100 SMS to be used for testing. This limit can be removed by setting up a Twilio account. To prevent malicious login attempts, your users will always be limited to up to 10 SMS/Hour (replenishing one message an hour, up to 10).

Click on the **SMS** box to configure your SMS settings.

![](/media/articles/mfa/sms-config.png)

#### 1. Open an account with Twilio

You will need a [Twilio Account SID](https://www.twilio.com/help/faq/twilio-basics/what-is-an-application-sid) and a [Twilio Auth Token](https://www.twilio.com/help/faq/twilio-basics/what-is-the-auth-token-and-how-can-i-change-it). These are the Twilio API credentials that Auth0 will use to send an SMS to the user. You may also need to enable permissions for your [geographic region](https://support.twilio.com/hc/en-us/articles/223181108-How-International-SMS-Permissions-work).

#### 2. Configure the connection

Enter your **Twilio Account SID** and **Twilio Auth Token** in the appropriate fields.

Choose your **SMS Source**.

* If you choose **Use From**, you will need to enter the **From** phone number that users will see as the sender of the SMS. You may also configure this in Twilio.

* If you choose **Use Copilot **, you will need to enter a [Copilot SID](https://www.twilio.com/docs/api/rest/sending-messages-copilot).

Click **SAVE**.

## Customize MFA for Select Users

Once you have enabled either MFA option, you will be presented with the **Customize MFA** code snippet that you can edit to ensure that MFA is applied to the appropriate Applications. By default, Auth0 enables Guardian for all accounts.

```js
function (user, context, callback) {

  //var CLIENTS_WITH_MFA = ['REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_CLIENT_ID'];
  // run only for the specified applications
  // if (CLIENTS_WITH_MFA.indexOf(context.clientID) !== -1) {
    // uncomment the following if clause in case you want to request a second factor only from user's that have user_metadata.use_mfa === true
    // if (user.user_metadata && user.user_metadata.use_mfa){
      context.multifactor = {
        provider: 'guardian', //required

        // optional, defaults to true. Set to false to force MFA authentication every time.
        // See https://auth0.com/docs/multifactor-authentication/custom#change-the-frequency-of-authentication-requests for details
        allowRememberBrowser: false
      };
    // }
  //}

  callback(null, user, context);
}
```

If you choose to selectively apply MFA, you will need the appropriate `clientID` values, and the code will be executed as part of a [Rule](/rules) whenever a user logs in.

More specifically, you will uncomment and populate the following line of the **Customize MFA** snippet with the appropriate client IDs:

`var CLIENTS_WITH_MFA = ['REPLACE_WITH_CLIENT_ID'];`

By setting `allowRememberBrowser: false`, the user will always be prompted for MFA when they login. This prevents the browser cookie from saving the credentials and helps make logins more secure, especially from untrusted machines. See [here](/multifactor-authentication/custom#change-the-frequency-of-authentication-requests) for details

Once you have finished making your desired changes, click **Save**.

## Customizing the Guardian Screen

You may change the logo and the friendly name that is displayed to your users. To do so, make the appropriate changes to the Guardian page settings on the [Tenant Settings](${manage_url}/#/tenant) page. You may also reach the **Tenant Settings** page by clicking on your tenant name on the top right of the page and then selecting **Settings** from the dropdown menu that appears.

![](/media/articles/mfa/guardian-logo-and-name-settings.png)

 * **Friendly Name**: the name of the app that you want displayed to users
 * **Logo URL**: the URL that points to the logo image you want displayed to users

Auth0 recommends using a logo image that is at least 100x100 pixels, although an image that is 200x200 pixels ensures quality viewing in devices with Retina or high DPI displays.

## Tracking your Users MFA Events

In the [Logs](${manage_url}/#/logs) section of the dashboard, you can see the various events related to your users signing up and signing in using MFA.

![](/media/articles/mfa/logs.png)

Here are all the possible events related to MFA:

| Event Type  | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `gd_unenroll` | When a device account is deleted |
| `gd_update_device_account` | When a device account is updated |
| `gd_send_pn` | When a push notification is sent |
| `gd_send_sms` | When a SMS is sent |
| `gd_sms_failure` | When a SMS failed to be sent. It usually means a configuration mistake for Twilio provider. You can check the provider error message and code as part of the details. |
| `gd_start_auth` | Start second factor authentication  |
| `gd_start_enroll` | Second factor auth enrollment is started |
| `gd_enrollment_complete` | Second factor enrollment has been completed |
| `gd_module_switch` | When changing feature config |
| `gd_tenant_update` | When tenant info has been updated |
| `gd_user_delete` | When calling (user delete => unenroll) |
| `gd_auth_failed` | When second factor login has failed |
| `gd_auth_succeed` | When second factor authentication has succeeded |
| `gd_recovery_succeed` | Recovery succeeded |
| `gd_recovery_failed` | Failed recovery |
| `gd_otp_rate_limit_exceed` | When One Time Password fails validation because rate limit is exceeded |
| `gd_recovery_rate_limit_exceed` | When recovery validation fails because rate limit is exceeded |

These events can also be searched using the [Management APIv2](/api/management/v2#!/Logs) using [query string syntax](/api/management/v2/query-string-syntax). You can search criteria using the `q` parameter or you can search by a specific log ID.

### Examples searching with the `q` parameter

To see the events for users who are enrolling with MFA:

`type: gd_start_enroll`

To see all the times an SMS is sent:

`type: gd_send_sms`

## Reset an MFA for a User

If a user has lost their mobile device, they will need their recovery code to be able to log in. If they have also lost their recovery code, you, as an administrator, will need to reset their MFA.

To reset a user's MFA:

1.  Find and select the user in the [Users](${manage_url}/#/users) section of the dashboard.
2. Once you have selected the affected user, click on the **Actions** button on the top right of the screen.
3. Select **Reset Multi-factor Authentication** from the dropdown.
4. There will be a pop up box to confirm your decision.  Click **YES, RESET IT** to reset the user's MFA.

 ![](/media/articles/mfa/reset-mfa.png)

The next time the user logs in they will need to re-setup their MFA just like a new user.

## Disabling Guardian and other MFA

Guardian, and other types of MFA, can be disabled from the [Multi-factor Auth](${manage_url}/#/guardian) section of the dashboard. Toggle the button to disabled for the type of MFA you wish to turn off. A confirmation popup will appear.

By disabling a type of MFA, you will un-enroll all your current users of that type of MFA. They will be asked to re-enroll next time they try to login. This action cannot be reverted.

Commit message:

Avoid implying users enroll when MFA is disabled
The current text states that after disabling MFA users will then be asked to enroll in MFA. This does not make sense. I presume that when you disabled a type of MFA users will only be asked to enroll again _if_ you still have the other MFA type active, or if you later re-enable MFA.

articles/multifactor-authentication/guardian/admin-guide.md, after:

---
description: How to enable and use Push Notifications and SMS for Guardian MFA.
toc: true
topics:
  - mfa
  - guardian
  - push-notifications
contentType:
  - how-to
useCase:
  - customize-mfa
---

# Guardian for Administrators

Guardian is Auth0's multi-factor authentication (MFA) application that provides a simple, safe way for you to implement MFA. The Guardian app is used for two-factor authentication when logging into an application, which helps create a more secure login.  With two-factor authentication your users will always need their mobile device in order to login.

This page explains how to enable and use Push Notifications and SMS for MFA for signing in your users.

For more information on Guardian, how to download the app, and common questions, see: [How to Use the Guardian App](/multifactor-authentication/guardian/user-guide).

## Support for Push Notifications

To enable Push Notifications MFA for sign in and sign up for your application by your users, go to the [Multi-factor Auth](${manage_url}/#/guardian) section of the dashboard. Then toggle the **Push Notification** slider to enable it.

![Dashboard > Guardian](/media/articles/mfa/guardian-dashboard.png)

For your users to utilize this type of MFA, they will need a supported mobile device. The device must have either the Guardian app installed, the Google Authenticator app installed, or an app that supports scanning Time-based One-time Password (TOTP) codes to use with Guardian. Here are the available options:

| **OS** | **Guardian** | **Google Authenticator** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **iOS** | Requires iOS 9.0 or later| Requires iOS 5.0 or later |
| **Android** | Requires Android API version 18 or later| Requires Android version 2.1 or later |
| **Windows** | Guardian codes are supported using the Microsoft Authenticator app available for Windows 10 Mobile and Windows Phone 8/8.1 | Unsupported |
| **Blackberry** | Must use a TOTP scanning app | Requires OS 4.5-7.0 |
| **Other** | Must use a TOTP scanning app | Unsupported |

::: note
For more information on using the Google Authenticator app, refer to [Google Authenticator](/multifactor-authentication/google-authenticator).
:::

New users signing up will be prompted to download the Guardian app from either the App Store or Google Play. Once they indicate that they downloaded the app, a code will appear. They will have five minutes to scan the code with the app before it expires. After the code has been successfully scanned, users will see a confirmation screen which includes a recovery code. They need to have this recovery code to login without their mobile device. If they lose both the recovery code and their mobile device, you will need to [reset their MFA](#reset-an-mfa-for-a-user). Then they will receive a push notification to their device and they will be logged in.

Users that were previously registered before you enabled MFA will need to complete the same process as new users on their next login.

## Support for SMS

You can enable SMS messages to use as a form of multi-factor authentication. This is also under the [Multi-factor Auth](${manage_url}/#/guardian) section of the dashboard. By toggling the **SMS** slider, you can enable using SMS for sign in and sign up for your application. SMS can be used as your only form of MFA or in addition to Push Notifications.

Your users must have a device capable of using SMS to use this option. If your users are unable to always receive SMS messages (such as when travelling), they will be unable sign up with SMS and unable to login without the recovery code.

When your users sign up with SMS, they enter their phone number's country code and mobile phone number.

![](/media/articles/mfa/sms.png)

After sign up, they receive a six digit code to their phone. They need to enter this code into the box, and then they will get a recovery code. They will need this code to login if they do not have their device. If they have lost their recovery code and device, you will need to [reset the user's MFA](#reset-an-mfa-for-a-user).

::: panel Rate Limits

Each hour, any given user is allotted a maximum of ten failed SMS attempts. After that, Auth0 considers all OTP codes invalid, and any additional attempts to log in results in a `Too Many Attempts` error.

More specifically, this means that if someone enters in the code incorrectly ten or more times within an hour, they will need to wait six minutes to gain another attempt. If the user attempts another code before sufficient time has elapsed, Auth0 considers all OTP codes invalid (even if they aren't expired).
:::

### Configuring Guardian SMS with Twilio

When initially setting up SMS, you have up to 100 SMS to be used for testing. This limit can be removed by setting up a Twilio account. To prevent malicious login attempts, your users will always be limited to up to 10 SMS/Hour (replenishing one message an hour, up to 10).

Click on the **SMS** box to configure your SMS settings.

![](/media/articles/mfa/sms-config.png)

#### 1. Open an account with Twilio

You will need a [Twilio Account SID](https://www.twilio.com/help/faq/twilio-basics/what-is-an-application-sid) and a [Twilio Auth Token](https://www.twilio.com/help/faq/twilio-basics/what-is-the-auth-token-and-how-can-i-change-it). These are the Twilio API credentials that Auth0 will use to send an SMS to the user. You may also need to enable permissions for your [geographic region](https://support.twilio.com/hc/en-us/articles/223181108-How-International-SMS-Permissions-work).

#### 2. Configure the connection

Enter your **Twilio Account SID** and **Twilio Auth Token** in the appropriate fields.

Choose your **SMS Source**.

* If you choose **Use From**, you will need to enter the **From** phone number that users will see as the sender of the SMS. You may also configure this in Twilio.

* If you choose **Use Copilot **, you will need to enter a [Copilot SID](https://www.twilio.com/docs/api/rest/sending-messages-copilot).

Click **SAVE**.

## Customize MFA for Select Users

Once you have enabled either MFA option, you will be presented with the **Customize MFA** code snippet that you can edit to ensure that MFA is applied to the appropriate Applications. By default, Auth0 enables Guardian for all accounts.

```js
function (user, context, callback) {

  //var CLIENTS_WITH_MFA = ['REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_CLIENT_ID'];
  // run only for the specified applications
  // if (CLIENTS_WITH_MFA.indexOf(context.clientID) !== -1) {
    // uncomment the following if clause in case you want to request a second factor only from user's that have user_metadata.use_mfa === true
    // if (user.user_metadata && user.user_metadata.use_mfa){
      context.multifactor = {
        provider: 'guardian', //required

        // optional, defaults to true. Set to false to force MFA authentication every time.
        // See https://auth0.com/docs/multifactor-authentication/custom#change-the-frequency-of-authentication-requests for details
        allowRememberBrowser: false
      };
    // }
  //}

  callback(null, user, context);
}
```

If you choose to selectively apply MFA, you will need the appropriate `clientID` values, and the code will be executed as part of a [Rule](/rules) whenever a user logs in.

More specifically, you will uncomment and populate the following line of the **Customize MFA** snippet with the appropriate client IDs:

`var CLIENTS_WITH_MFA = ['REPLACE_WITH_CLIENT_ID'];`

By setting `allowRememberBrowser: false`, the user will always be prompted for MFA when they login. This prevents the browser cookie from saving the credentials and helps make logins more secure, especially from untrusted machines. See [here](/multifactor-authentication/custom#change-the-frequency-of-authentication-requests) for details

Once you have finished making your desired changes, click **Save**.

## Customizing the Guardian Screen

You may change the logo and the friendly name that is displayed to your users. To do so, make the appropriate changes to the Guardian page settings on the [Tenant Settings](${manage_url}/#/tenant) page. You may also reach the **Tenant Settings** page by clicking on your tenant name on the top right of the page and then selecting **Settings** from the dropdown menu that appears.

![](/media/articles/mfa/guardian-logo-and-name-settings.png)

 * **Friendly Name**: the name of the app that you want displayed to users
 * **Logo URL**: the URL that points to the logo image you want displayed to users

Auth0 recommends using a logo image that is at least 100x100 pixels, although an image that is 200x200 pixels ensures quality viewing in devices with Retina or high DPI displays.

## Tracking your Users MFA Events

In the [Logs](${manage_url}/#/logs) section of the dashboard, you can see the various events related to your users signing up and signing in using MFA.

![](/media/articles/mfa/logs.png)

Here are all the possible events related to MFA:

| Event Type  | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `gd_unenroll` | When a device account is deleted |
| `gd_update_device_account` | When a device account is updated |
| `gd_send_pn` | When a push notification is sent |
| `gd_send_sms` | When a SMS is sent |
| `gd_sms_failure` | When a SMS failed to be sent. It usually means a configuration mistake for Twilio provider. You can check the provider error message and code as part of the details. |
| `gd_start_auth` | Start second factor authentication  |
| `gd_start_enroll` | Second factor auth enrollment is started |
| `gd_enrollment_complete` | Second factor enrollment has been completed |
| `gd_module_switch` | When changing feature config |
| `gd_tenant_update` | When tenant info has been updated |
| `gd_user_delete` | When calling (user delete => unenroll) |
| `gd_auth_failed` | When second factor login has failed |
| `gd_auth_succeed` | When second factor authentication has succeeded |
| `gd_recovery_succeed` | Recovery succeeded |
| `gd_recovery_failed` | Failed recovery |
| `gd_otp_rate_limit_exceed` | When One Time Password fails validation because rate limit is exceeded |
| `gd_recovery_rate_limit_exceed` | When recovery validation fails because rate limit is exceeded |

These events can also be searched using the [Management APIv2](/api/management/v2#!/Logs) using [query string syntax](/api/management/v2/query-string-syntax). You can search criteria using the `q` parameter or you can search by a specific log ID.

### Examples searching with the `q` parameter

To see the events for users who are enrolling with MFA:

`type: gd_start_enroll`

To see all the times an SMS is sent:

`type: gd_send_sms`

## Reset an MFA for a User

If a user has lost their mobile device, they will need their recovery code to be able to log in. If they have also lost their recovery code, you, as an administrator, will need to reset their MFA.

To reset a user's MFA:

1.  Find and select the user in the [Users](${manage_url}/#/users) section of the dashboard.
2. Once you have selected the affected user, click on the **Actions** button on the top right of the screen.
3. Select **Reset Multi-factor Authentication** from the dropdown.
4. There will be a pop up box to confirm your decision.  Click **YES, RESET IT** to reset the user's MFA.

 ![](/media/articles/mfa/reset-mfa.png)

The next time the user logs in they will need to re-setup their MFA just like a new user.

## Disabling Guardian and other MFA

Guardian, and other types of MFA, can be disabled from the [Multi-factor Auth](${manage_url}/#/guardian) section of the dashboard. Toggle the button to disabled for the type of MFA you wish to turn off. A confirmation popup will appear.

By disabling a type of MFA, you will un-enroll all your current users of that type of MFA. If you have the other type of MFA enabled, or if you re-enable MFA at a later time, your users will be asked to re-enroll next time they try to login. This action cannot be reverted.
